I mean they left Odessa in about 1903 as a result of her eldest sister witnessing
the beheading of her husband. It was a wretched scenario.
Can you say more about that?
I will because it was part of my life as a child.
Aunt Bella, who was a very, very beautiful woman, I've seen photographs of her as a young
woman and she was strikingly beautiful, had married a Cossack, a non-Jew, who was apparently
also, in fact I've got some photographs of their offspring in that book which you will
see later.
And the Cossacks did not want their people to be killed.
To marry Jews.
So to make an example, he was beheaded in their cellar in front of her when she was
carrying Grisha, who was then about five months pregnant, she was, and she graphically told
me the story of how she spoke with a very Russian accent.
They held his head and he had long beautiful hair, and they had a huge scimitar and whoosh,
and the head came off and the blood went up to the ceiling all over me, I was carrying
Grisha.
Little, little ladle sitting on her lap, aged about five, heard this story so many
times I got used to it.
It was quite something.
I think this was the final straw which said, get the hell out.